The graduation of the 150th class of Gilead,
who would have thought that we would have 150 classes
of Gilead, and probably for you students,
you were wondering if you would survive
to the 150th graduation.
Over the years, graduations of Gilead
have taken various forms.
If you look at this photograph,
you'll notice that the seventh class,
the graduation was in 1946.
And what do you notice?
The guests who came along,
they were in the open air, hoping for good weather.
And I'm told there was no,
it wasn't a ticket at the event,
so just those that wanted to come along came along.
And then notice in the next one here,
we've got the president giving one of the talks
on the stairs leading up to Gilead.
Well, things have changed.
In 1953, the 21st class,
graduated at the Yankee Stadium,
and you'd imagine that was a huge event.
And in fact, it commemorated
the 10th anniversary of Gilead,
and was very appropriate because
that was a very special year, 1953.
That was the year that the U.S. government
granted us legal status
so that we could have foreign students come
and join the school.
And then, of course, no matter what graduation we've had,
always the joyous look on the faces of those graduating.
That's the common denominator.
Of course, in recent years,
we've had some very different graduations as well.
Haven't we, with no live audience?
But aren't you happy that we've got a live audience today?
Now, after the last few months,
you've been so through so many lessons
and written exams and so on,
there's been a lot of training.
And what has been the purpose of all of that?
Well, when we think of worldly institutions and education,
usually it's all about the students, isn't it?
It's all about their dreams, as Brother Morris mentioned.
It's all about their ambitions
and their success that they're looking forward to.
But what about Gilead?
Well, you've learned very clearly, I'm sure,
that it's not about you.
And if you haven't, maybe we need to enroll you
in the next class as well.
No, as dedicated servants of Jehovah,
we see that it's nothing is about us.
It's not all about us.
It's about what we can accomplish
in praising our Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
So now you're at this point
where you're about to graduate.
Now what?
Now's the time for you to share what you've learned with others.
Now what does that involve?
Does this mean you're going to go to different assignments
and start up little Gilead classes, informally,
in the back rooms of Kingdom Halls?
I wouldn't advise that.
So what does it mean to share what you've learned with others?
Well, as it has already been highlighted in this program,
your example working hard is going to help others
to see in action what you learned at Gilead.
But also, we see a very interesting scripture
in the second book of Timothy.
So please turn with me to second Timothy chapter two
and verse two.
And here Paul is speaking to Timothy,
but he captures the thought of what else we need to do.
In verse two, it says,
the things you heard from me
that were supported by many witnesses,
these things in trust of faithful men
who in turn will be adequately qualified to teach others.
What do we see from this particular verse?
Well, yes, you will teach by your example, doing hard work,
but also you need to take interest in others
and perhaps in a more informal setting,
help them to see the principles and the lessons
that you've learned from your Gilead training.
And that's a very important thing.
We can take the example of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Of course, Jesus was, His main focus
was the preaching of the good news of the Kingdom, wasn't it?
But that's not all He did.
If we turn to Mark chapter nine,
notice in Jesus busy schedule what He made time for.
This is Mark chapter nine, verses 30 and 31.
They departed from there and went through Galilee,
but He did not want anyone to get to know about it.
So this was something where He wanted some peace and quiet.
Why?
Well, verse 31 says,
for He was teaching His disciples.
So Jesus took time from His busy schedule
to show interest in those who He was training
to help them to be prepared for the future.
So that's a wonderful example for us.
When we look through the scriptures,
we see many examples, but for the next few minutes,
we're going to think about Barnabas.
And how Barnabas was able to share what He learned with Paul.
And as we think about what happened in that interaction
between Barnabas and Paul,
we're going to learn five lessons,
five lessons that teach us how to handle
training others and passing on what we've learned.
So the first lesson, if you turn with me,
please, to the book of Acts, Acts chapter nine.
This takes us to the year around the year 36C.
So Saul has already become a Christian.
Now, after a while, he arrives in Jerusalem.
So what happens?
In verse 26 of chapter nine, it says,
on arriving in Jerusalem, He, that's Paul,
made efforts to join the disciples,
but they were all afraid of Him.
I wonder why?
Because they did not believe He was a disciple.
They were thinking this is going to be a very dangerous thing.
But now what happened in verse 27?
So Barnabas came to his aid and led him to the apostles.
So we see as pictured here,
Barnabas saw the potential in Saul
and believed that really,
he could be useful in Jehovah's service.
So he risked his reputation, you might say,
by supporting or sponsoring Saul
and taking him to the apostles.
So what's the lesson that we learn from this?
Try to see the potential in others.
And don't worry about if you perhaps encourage them
and you give them support, you sponsor them, you might say,
and then they don't really turn out well,
but now all of a sudden your reputation
is going to be tarnished.
Remember, it's not all about you.
It's what is good for the work.
So that's the first lesson.
Try to see the potential in others.
Now if we turn across to Acts chapter 11,
this goes about nine years later,
around the year 45 CE.
Now in chapter 11 of Acts,
the work is going ahead in the Gentile field
and particularly in the city of Antioch.
So Barnabas was assigned by the brothers
to go and help the congregation in Antioch.
Well, let's look down to verses 25 and 26
because as soon as Barnabas arrived there,
he realized he needed help.
So what did he do?
Well, in verse 25 it says,
he, that's Barnabas,
went to Tassus to make a thorough search for Saul.
So he went to find Saul.
He remembered this as a man who could speak Greek
and was well educated.
He'd be able to help him with the Gentile field.
It's interesting that when you look at a map,
you'll notice that it's about 120 miles
from Antioch to Tassus or about 200 kilometers.
It mentions here in verse 25,
he made a thorough search for Saul.
Why?
Well, if we compare first Corinthians
where Paul lists all the things he did,
many of those, it appears happened in those nine years.
He was shipwrecked several times,
put it into prison and so on.
So he was very busy.
Barnabas sought him out.
And then what did he have to do?
Well, in verse 26 it says,
after he found him, he brought him to Antioch.
So what did he have to do?
He had to convince Saul.
You can imagine that might have been a little difficult
because Saul was having productive ministry.
So he brought him to Antioch.
Then verse 26 says,
for a whole year,
they assembled with them in the congregation
and taught quite a crowd.
So Barnabas didn't take Paul and say,
now I'm going to teach you,
he just had him work along with him.
And as they worked together,
that would have given Saul some training.
So what's the lesson that we learned?
Be willing to make the effort.
You see, Barnabas not only saw the potential,
but he was willing to go and find Saul,
then convince him to come and work with him.
And then they worked together.
So that's the second lesson.
The third lesson is in Acts 13.
So after Barnabas and Saul were in Antioch for some time,
what happened in verse two?
Says as they were ministering to Jehovah and fasting,
the Holy Spirit said,
set aside for me Barnabas and Saul
for the work to which I have called them.
Well now this is the time when they're going out
in their missionary field.
But notice the Holy Spirit mentions Barnabas and Saul.
So in this illustration, we see who's taking the lead.
Barnabas, Saul's following along.
But if we look down further in verse 13 of the same chapter,
we see there's a little change.
Saul starts to use a name that is more common in that area.
Paul, but what does it say?
Now Paul and his companions would have to see.
And from here on, it seems that Paul took the lead.
Now let's just imagine for a little bit
that you were Barnabas.
Maybe we could imagine ourselves saying
quietly to Saul or Paul,
whatever he was calling himself at that time.
Can I just have a few words with you?
This is not a big issue, but remember when Holy Spirit said
we were going out, it was Barnabas and Saul.
Now I don't have a big problem with this,
but I appreciate your enthusiasm,
but really I was the one designed to take the lead here.
Now he didn't say that, did he?
The Bethara Witness book mentions he wasn't envious at all.
So what's the lesson?
Well, if we're working along with someone
and training them, the lesson is don't be envious.
If they start to excel,
and actually what we're hoping them to do
is to blossom and they get some of the privileges
that perhaps we would have liked along the way.
So we won't be saying, well, excuse me,
but I'm the one who went through Gilead.
No, we won't be envious.
The fourth lesson takes us to the book of Galatians.
So if you turn with me to Galatians, chapter two.
And this is around the year 49 CE.
Already, Peter and Paul and Barnabas and Titus
had all been to Jerusalem
and they had had the big discussion
with the governing body about circumcision.
Interestingly, when they arrived in Jerusalem,
the account says Barnabas and Paul were there, interesting.
Maybe Barnabas took note of that,
that he was mentioned first again,
probably because the governing body remembered
that was actually the role originally.
But now we find that Peter, Paul, and Barnabas
and some others were back in Antioch
and what happened just a few months after that special meeting.
Well, Paul had to tell Peter he was doing something wrong.
But notice please, what verse 13 says?
The rest of the Jews also joined him
in putting on this pretense
so that even Barnabas was let along with them in their pretense.
Now, I just love this picture.
You see, Paul telling Peter he's wrong
and you look, have a look at that.
Look on Barnabas face it.
He looks guilty.
Oh, words.
You see, he was caught in the crossfire.
He likewise was getting counsel
because he was involved with this.
So what lesson do we gain from this?
Except counsel.
Even from those who we are viewing
as the ones who were training.
Don't feel that we're above accepting counsel.
Now, the final lesson is the one,
probably you thought about immediately
when we mentioned Paul and Barnabas.
I know what you were thinking, Acts 15.
So let's turn them.
Acts 15 and verses 37 to 39.
And this is after the incident in Antioch
and it says Barnabas was determined to take along John
who was called Mark.
Paul, however, was not in favor
of taking him along with them,
seeing that he had departed from them in Pamphilia
and had not gone with them to the work.
At this, there was a sharp burst of anger
so that they separated from each other.
Now, this is the instance that we usually remember
when we think of Paul and Barnabas.
What led to this problem?
Have you ever thought about that?
It mentions that Paul was very hesitant
about taking John Mark along with them.
Perhaps he remembered on that first missionary tour
when John Mark had gone back,
he and Barnabas continued on into Galatia
and reading what Paul said to the Galatians.
It seems obvious that Paul had problems with his eyes
and he was very sick at that point.
So no doubt, you know, he missed having a young man
available to carry the luggage
to do all the things that needed to be done.
So part of us can understand why Paul was hesitant.
He didn't want to lose the help again.
But then on the other hand, what about Barnabas?
Why do you think he was so determined to take John Mark?
Well, it could be the fact that he was a relative
that sometimes comes into a factor
or it could be that the fact that Barnabas saw
the potential in Saul is the same thing he saw in John Mark.
This is a good young man.
We need to give him a chance.
Or could it be that he was still stinging
a little bit after the rebuke in Antioch?
Or could it be that he was still viewing Saul or Paul
as a student, someone you're in the truth in him
and someone that he just found it hard
to accept his opinion?
Now, we're not going to play the blame game.
Some of us will be working with these brothers later.
But I feel safe in saying this.
I'm sure that Paul and Barnabas,
when they think back to that day,
would agree they could have done things better.
Is that a safe comment?
I think all of us have things we've felt.
Maybe we were right, but we could have handled it better.
So what's the lesson?
Try to respect different opinions.
Don't overreact.
Don't get upset.
Try to work through things so that it doesn't affect
our working relationship.
Well, when we've thought about Barnabas and Paul,
it really gives us a lot of food for thought, doesn't it?
Remember those five lessons?
Try to see the potential in others.
Then be willing to put for the effort
that's required to train them.
Don't be envious if they get privileges.
Except counsel if they offer you counsel
and respect their opinions as well.
We know that you'll try to implement those suggestions.
Yes, as you go to your assignments,
may your hover be with you and bless you,
may you try to help others by sharing what you've learned
at Gilead, and in that way,
you will fulfill the purpose of Gilead
to stabilize and strengthen others.